# DSRI2023-USGuidedNeedleClassification
 
DSRI 2023 - Connor Baillie This project was completed as part of the DSRI 2023. Project was completed by Connor Baillie under the supervision of Dr. Matthew Holden. This repository includes all of the final files of the project, as well as some output files that show the training performance of the final model, as well as the results of predicting on 352 unseen ultrasound images. The repository also includes the final model with all of its trained weights. Keep in mind that this model is very large and will require the use of Git Large File System in order to download from this repo.

The goal of this project was to develope a machine learning model that can automatically detect the needle insertion approach (in-plane or out-of-plane) being used during an ultrasound-guided needle intervention. The analysis of the plane of approach in this type of medical procedure is essential, but often time-consuming and challenging. The goal of my research is to develop and deploy a model using Tensorflow that can automatically detect the plane-of-approach. My hope is to deploy a model that demonstrates the ability for neural networks to streamline the process of analyzing ultrasound scans through cheaper, faster, and more accurate identification of the plane-of-approach.

I was very pleased with the final results. The final model achieved an accuracy of 99.7% percent on the test set. When using FINAL_script.py to make a prediction on a single ultrasound guided needle intervention video, the model is extremely accurate, likely to the point of never misclassifying a video.

To use FINAL_script.py, first download the model and ensure you have an sqbr file. Make sure both the model and the sqbr file are in the same directory as the script. When you run the script you should pass the file name as the first command line argument, and second the full directory where the model file is located, which should be in the same directory as the script. Running the script will create multiple new folders. Each time the script is run these folders need to be deleted or moved to a different directory.
